Updating the jog_arm tutorial for Melodic. (#286)
ros-planning/moveit_tutorials: doc/arm_jogging/arm_jogging_tutorial.rst

The jogger can publish ``trajectory_msgs/JointTrajectory`` or ``std_msgs/Float64MultiArray`` message types. This is configured in a yaml file (see ``config/sia5_simulated_config.yaml`` for an example).

Getting Started
---------------
If you haven't already done so, make sure you've completed the steps in `Getting Started <../getting_started/getting_started.html>`_.

You can test the jogger with a `Gazebo simulation <https://github.com/UTNuclearRoboticsPublic/motoman_project>`_. Gazebo is necessary because it provides ros\_control controllers. Install dependencies:

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo apt install ros-melodic-control* ros-melodic-gazebo-ros-control* ros-melodic-joint-state-controller ros-melodic-position-controllers ros-melodic-joint-trajectory-controller ros-melodic-movei*

    Clone the repo into the same catkin workspace from `Getting Started`. Then build the workspace with ``catkin build`` and re-source your setup files (e.g. ``source ~/catkin_ws/devel/setup.bash``).

Launch the Gazebo simulation:

.. code-block:: bash

  roslaunch motoman_gazebo sia5_gazebo_nishida_lab.launch

  roslaunch motoman_moveit sia5_gazebo_nishida_lab_moveit_planning_execution.launch

> Move the arm to a non-singular (non zero joint values) configuration then launch the jogger:

Reviewer: Tell the user how to do this. Can they use the motion planning plugin for rviz?

Reviewer: no need to go into great detail, but a non-expert might get confused about this

.. code-block:: bash

>   roslaunch moveit_experimental spacenav_cpp.launch

Reviewer: Update to `moveit_jog_arm` once we've separated the package.

> You can publish example jogging commands with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not have a spacenav 3D mouse, You can publish example jogging commands from the command line with:
```

ROS Signals
-----------
An `rqt_graph` of the jogger is shown below (Enlarge by clicking it). Most of these connections can be ignored. The important ones are:

- **spacenav_to_twist** node: Converts incoming commands from the joystick to Cartesian commands or joint angle commands, depending on which buttons are pressed.

- **tf**: This topic carries ROS coordinate frame information. The jogger uses it to transform commands from the joystick's frame of reference to the robot's frame of reference. These frames are selected in ``config/sia5_simulated_config.yaml``.

- **joint_states**: The jogger uses this joint information for calculations.

- **move_group**: The jogger uses the MoveIt! move_group node to help with some calculations and parse things like joint limits.

- **sia5_controller/command**: This is the outgoing command that causes the robot to move.

- **planning_scene**: If collision detection is enabled, the jogger should halt before colliding with obstacles in the planning scene.

.. image:: jogging_rqt_graph.png
   :width: 700px

Configuring Control Devices (Gamepads, Joysticks, etc)
------------------------------------------------------

> The ``jog_arm/config`` folder contains two examples of converting `SpaceNavigator <https://www.google.com/search?client=ubuntu&channel=fs&q=amazon+buy+spacenavigator&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8>`_ 3D mouse commands to jog commands. ``spacenav_teleop_tools.launch`` loads a config file then publishes commands to the jogger on the ``spacenav/joy topic``. It is easy to create your own config file for a particular joystick or gamepad. We welcome pull requests of config files for new controllers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``jog_arm/config`` folder contains two examples of converting `SpaceNavigator <https://www.3dconnexion.com/spacemouse_compact/en/>`_ 3D mouse commands to jog commands. ``spacenav_teleop_tools.launch`` loads a config file then publishes commands to the jogger on the ``spacenav/joy topic``. It is easy to create your own config file for a particular joystick or gamepad. We welcome pull requests of config files for new controllers.
```

Reviewer 2: ping @AndyZe

``spacenav_cpp.launch`` launches a C++ node that does the same thing but with less latency. We do not plan to accept C++ pull requests for more controller types because there is a lot of overhead involved in supporting them.

Integration Testing
-------------------
There is a Python integration test in ``test/integration``. Run it by:

.. code-block:: bash

>   roscd moveit_experimental

Reviewer: update once we have separated moveit_experimental

Robot Requirements
------------------
The jogger streams an array of position or velocity commands to the robot controller. This is compatible with ros\_control ``position_controllers/JointGroupPositionControllers`` or ``velocity_controllers/JointGroupVelocityControllers``. You can check if these controllers are available for your robot by searching for the controller config file (typically named ``controllers.yaml``). After launching the robot, you can check if any ros_control controllers are available with: ::

    rosservice call /controller_manager/list_controllers

And switch to the desired controller with: ::

    rosservice call /controller_manager/switch_controllers controller_to_start controller_to_stop

**NOTE:** You can tab-complete to help fill these commands.

Jogging may work on other robots that have a different control scheme but there is no guarantee. It has been tested heavily on UR robots using the [ur_modern_driver](https://github.com/ros-industrial/ur_modern_driver). The jogger currently does not limit joint jerk so may not be compatible with most heavy industrial robots.

> The jogger can publish ``trajectory_msgs/JointTrajectory`` or ``std_msgs/Float64MultiArray`` message types. This is configured in a yaml file (see ``config/ur_simulated_config.yaml`` for an example).

Reviewer 3: Can you explain, which message type should be used for which purpose?

ROS Signals
-----------

> An `rqt_graph` of the jogger is shown below (Enlarge by clicking it). Most of these connections can be ignored. The important ones are:

Reviewer 3: If most of those connections are not important, what about (manually) creating a diagram that focuses on the important ones only?
I think you should also explain the role of the `jog_arm_server` node.

- **spacenav_to_twist** node: Converts incoming commands from the joystick to Cartesian commands or joint angle commands, depending on which buttons are pressed.

> - **tf**: This topic carries ROS coordinate frame information. The jogger uses it to transform commands from the joystick's frame of reference to the robot's frame of reference. These frames are selected in ``config/ur_simulated_config.yaml``.

Reviewer 3: Which frames are the important ones in the robot frame? Only the base frame or any other robot frames as well?
If other frames are used as well, isn't the delay of TF causing issues there?

Author: Yes, the delay of tf might cause issues in fast applications. Not for the typical teleop scenario, though

Reviewer 3: You didn't yet answer my first question: Which frames are the important ones in the robot frame?
As you also get the `joint_states`, I guess you compute both FK and IK in your server, so only the base frame of the robot is required from TF. Would be great to confirm this in the README.

Author: Added a comment that everything is done in the `world` frame.

Reviewer 3: world is a specific frame name that is not defined in all robots. I guess you want to refer to the robot's planning / base frame.

- **joint_states**: The jogger uses this joint information for calculations.

> - **move_group**: The jogger uses the MoveIt! move_group node to help with some calculations and parse things like joint limits.

Reviewer 3: https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit/pull/1569 removed the dependency to move_group.

> - **tf** topic: Carries ROS coordinate frame information. The jogger uses it to transform commands from the joystick's frame of reference to the robot's frame of reference. These frames are selected in ``config/ur_simulated_config.yaml``. In this case, everything happens in the `world` frame.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **tf** topic: Carries ROS coordinate frame information. The jogger uses it to transform commands from the joystick's frame of reference to the robot's base/planning frame. These frames are configured in ``config/ur_simulated_config.yaml``.
```

        height="385"></embed></object>

Robot Requirements
------------------
The jogger streams an array of position or velocity commands to the robot controller. This is compatible with ros\_control ``position_controllers/JointGroupPositionControllers`` or ``velocity_controllers/JointGroupVelocityControllers``. You can check if these controllers are available for your robot by searching for the controller config file (typically named ``controllers.yaml``).

Jogging may work on other robots that have a different control scheme but there is no guarantee. It has been tested heavily on UR robots using the [ur_modern_driver](https://github.com/ros-industrial/ur_modern_driver). The jogger currently does not limit joint jerk so may not be compatible with most heavy industrial robots.

The jogger can publish ``trajectory_msgs/JointTrajectory`` or ``std_msgs/Float64MultiArray`` message types. This is configured in a yaml file (see ``config/sia5_simulated_config.yaml`` for an example).

Getting Started
---------------
If you haven't already done so, make sure you've completed the steps in `Getting Started <../getting_started/getting_started.html>`_.

> You can test the jogger with this `Gazebo simulator <https://github.com/UTNuclearRoboticsPublic/motoman_project>`_. Gazebo is necessary because it provides ros\_control controllers. Clone the repo into your catkin workspace. Install dependencies:

Reviewer: Is this really necessary to get the ros_control controllers? I don't like the idea of depending on UTNuclearRoboticsPublic. Would it be possible to use the Panda panda_moveit_config to keep dependencies within the ros-planning org?

Author: I can try to get the fake RViz trajectory controller working. That would be a lot simpler but I've never done it before.

On the other hand, if we use the Gazebo Motoman model, Professor Nishida said he would publicize the tutorial.  :+1:

Author: I tried for a couple hours today but I don't think the fake RViz controller is compatible with the jogger. It expects the entire trajectory to be sent in one chunk on `/execute_trajectory/goal`

Reviewer: Thanks for looking into this. Have you looked into the [moveit_sim_controller](https://github.com/PickNikRobotics/moveit_sim_controller)? I don't want you to spend too much of your time on this. That said, maybe look into the moveit_sim_controller for 15 minutes to see if it has the necessary interfaces? If not, then I am happy to approve with the UTNuclearRoboticsPublic repo.

Reviewer 3: The project you are referring to is not the Gazebo simulator, but it's a Motoman robot simulated in Gazebo.
Don't we have a Gazebo config for the Panda too? @mlautman Could you please try to get this tutorial running on the Panda? Only if somebody has successfully followed the tutorial steps, the tutorial is actually approved :wink:
I don't like the idea of adding yet another robot as well.

Author: @rhaschke If it will make you happy, I can send a video of running the tutorial steps on a fresh Melodic ROS install  :P

.. code-block:: bash

>     sudo apt install ros-melodic-control* ros-melodic-gazebo-ros-control* ros-melodic-joint-state-controller ros-melodic-position-controllers ros-melodic-joint-trajectory-controller

Reviewer 3: Installing dependencies should happen before setting up the workspace.

> Then build the workspace with ``catkin build``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then build the workspace with ``catkin build`` then resource your workspace.
```

> Then build the workspace with ``catkin build`` and re-source your setup files (e.g. ``source ~/catkin_ws/devel/setup.bash``).

Reviewer 3: Which workspace are you talking about here? Please clarify, e.g. by mentioning the workspace in "Getting Started" above.
